In this video we're going to
learn how to select by location
to work out how many sighting
points are in each of the
protected areas.
To begin with, we want to make
sure that we clear any selection
or definition query that we have
on our data already.
To clear a definition query you
want to go into the Sighting
points properties.
So right click and go into
properties.
Then in the definition query tab
and here is the definition query
that we set.
So if we hover our mouse over
this we can click on the red X
button to get rid of it.
So click on this, click yes and
OK and if we just let this load
then we can see we've got all of
our sighting points that have
come back.
If you have any of the data
points selected on your map, you
can go into the Map tab, into
the Selection section and click
on the Clear button to get rid
of any selection that you have.
And the Select by Location
button that we're going to use
in this video is also in this
section of the map tab.
So click on the Select by
Location button and now we can
add in the parameters to run
this selection.
So our input features are going
to be our sighting points.
So we've already got this here.
That's great if you don't have
it, just drag it across from
your contents and then we need
to choose the relationship.
So if we click on the drop down
box for this section, we can see
that there's lots of different
types of relationship or how we
want to run this tool.
We can hover our mouse over the
info icon and then this gives us
some more information about each
type of relationship and so if
you wanted to find which type to
use you can read through this
information.
So we're going to choose the
relationship within as we want
to know what sighting points are
within the protected areas.
So for our selecting features,
we're first of all going to take
a look at Ziama protected area
so we can click on this in the
contents and then drag it across
to the section here and the next
section search distance.
We don't need to worry about for
this selection and selection
type, we can leave that as new
selection.
So now we just need to hit apply
and hit OK and now we can see
our selected sighting points for
the sightings that occurred in
the Ziama protected area.
To see how many points or how
many sightings occurred within
Ziama, we need to open up the
attribute table for our sighting
points.
And then in the bottom of this
table it tells us that 32 points
have been selected.
So we know that 32 sightings of
Hippogriffs occurred in Ziama
protected area.
If we wanted to just see the
selected rows, we can click on
this button in the table at the
bottom and now we can just see
the selected rows.
And then if you wanted to clear
this select selection, you can
either use the clear that we
used in the map tab before in
the selection section, or if you
have the table open, you can
click on the white corner of the
table and this will just clear
the selection as well.
And so that's how to use the
Select by Location tool in Arc
GIS Pro.
Now have a go at selecting by
location for Wonegizi and
Wologizi as well to see how many
sighting points occurred in
these protected areas.